Hey, welcome to Luke's DevLab. My name's
Luke. I've been building software and
working as an engineer for eight years
and I'm here to help you cut through the
hype and find out what AI can do for
you. And in this video, we're going to
be looking at a Gemma 12B fine-tune and
we're going to compare it against the
base model. So, for the base, we're
going to be going with the Gemma 4 12B
IT GGUF from Unsloth and then we're
going to be comparing this against this
fine-tune. So, this fine-tune is based
on the outputs and reasoning of not just
Fable 5, but also Composer 2.5 and this
was fine-tuned by the Cursor team on the
open-source Kimiko 2.5. And Composer 2
is quite good in my opinion. It has a
very good balance of speed, quality, and
cost. And the reason I wanted to look at
this because it's actually been trending
a bit on Hugging Face. So, this is the
version 2 that just came out, but if we
look at the version 1 that came out a
few days prior, you can see it's got 2K
likes, it's got over 300,000 downloads.
So, this one did catch my attention. So,
because the version 2 did just come out,
we are going to look at that one and
then we're going to go with 4-bit quant
and we're going to go with the Q4KM and
then to make the comparison as similar
as possible, we're going to go with the
same Q4KM on this base model, too. I'll
leave both of these pages linked down
below if you want to check out the
models for yourself and then also note
that all the prompts used in this video
as well as my model configs will also be
linked down below in the GitHub link.
So, we're going to be doing quite an
extensive test suite today on these
models. So, we're going to start with
performance to see how the prefill and
the token generation is. Then we're
going to move on to memory where we fill
up the context and we place pieces of
data throughout the context and see how
the model does finding that data to see
if it gets lost in long context. Then
we're going to do our agency benchmark,
which is our fake company where the
model has to call a bunch of tools,
chain tools together, think around
problems. We're going to be doing our
OpenAI human eval, which is 164 Python
coding challenges. And then we're going
to do our sand physics simulator,
followed by our dungeon crawler, which
is very good for algorithms because this
has the model doing things like ray
casting, random generation of the
dungeon. And then just a real quick look
at the system that this is all going to
be running on. So, this is a separate
system I have for AI inference, which
will be using 16 gigs of VRAM, which
this model will comfortably fit into.
So, then the 32 gigs of DDR4 is not
really relevant in this scenario. Okay,
so we're here with the performance
benchmarks. I'm always going to have the
base model on the left, and then the
fine-tune on the right. So, as we can
see, if we jump in, kind of expected
here, the numbers are very similar,
within margin of error. So, our prefill,
and that is the speed at which the model
ingest tokens, our input essentially,
yeah, we're looking at the same 23, 24
across the board. So, no surprise. And
then if we jump down to our decode,
which is the token generation, again,
basically the same, within margin of
error. So, for performance, they do
actually perform the same. So, now we're
going to move on to the memory test. So,
as mentioned before, the memory test, we
essentially, we fill up the context of
the model, and then we place pieces of
data at set intervals within that. And
for this, we're going to do 128K context
on the models, and we're going to put
pieces of data at 0, 25, 50, 75, and
100% depth of the context. And then
we're essentially going to ask the model
to find that data at those depths. And
then we're also going to run the test
three times over as well, to check for
consistency. So, we have our results in.
And again, the base model is on the
left, and the fine-tune is on the right.
And this is an interesting result, in my
opinion. I was kind of expecting the
same, but as you can see, the fine-tune
has a 100% pass rate, and our base model
has 87% so interestingly the base model
fell down one out of three times at 25%
depth and it also fell down one out of
three times at our 100% depth. Whereas
our fine-tune just nailed it across all
of them. And if we scroll down to the
actual responses, they're pretty clean.
But yeah, we can see here it was going
to give it but for some reason we didn't
receive the key and then here on our
100% you can see very much that it has
just got lost in the context. So the
document we're using is a large PDF on
the Linux kernel. So that explains this
output here. So an interesting result,
wasn't expecting it to be honest. Yeah,
that's our memory test results. So let's
move on. So next we're running our
agency benchmark for the models and I'm
just going to give you an overview here
while that's running and also know that
this document is in the GitHub link down
below if you'd like to read it for
yourself. But essentially we drop the
model into a fake company sandbox where
the model has access to a bunch of tools
and then we run the model through a
bunch of scenarios. So they start from
very simple ones like what department
does so-and-so work in and then they
slowly advance to things like uh book an
appointment for this person's manager at
this time or book an appointment where
there's a conflict or we're asking it
convert currency from A to B but the
path of A to B isn't available in the
tools but there may be a way to get from
A to B by chaining tools together like
there's a tool that does A to F and then
F to G and then G to B. So the model's
working with a lot of reasoning, tool
calling. So this will simulate how it
does in an agentic workflow essentially.
So we have our results in for our agency
benchmark. Again, base on the left,
fine-tune on the right and the fine
[snorts] tune is failed pretty hard on
this. It's probably the worst performer
I've seen on my agency benchmark. So,
91% for the base model, 52% for our fine
tune. So, let's jump in and see what's
gone wrong with this. So, it started off
okay with the very simple ones and then
once it's been asked to book a
conference room, it's basically just
started calling all sorts of tools. So,
it's done kind of what it should do in
the beginning. It's called the create
ticket tool and it's created a ticket
laptop screen flickering. Very strange
behavior there. It's listed people in
departments. It searched the wiki which
is actually just a tool that should
never be called on this benchmark. It's
kind of a trap tool. Um it's Yeah, I
don't know what's going on here. Again,
it's been asked to book a room. It's
like doing the same thing. It's created
a ticket again. Server team
unresponsive. Like, damn, if you had
this model running in your company, it
would be a nightmare.
>> [laughter]
>> It's just creating tickets. Here's
another one. So, again, it's another
room booking and it's created a ticket
urgent laptop won't boot. It sounds like
this model is having difficulties,
that's for sure. Let's have a look at
some more. So, again, a ticket and it's
just opening loads of tickets. It seems
like it's getting stuck in a bit of a
loop here. I've actually seen this
behavior with Gemma where it completes a
task, doesn't think it's done it, so it
just does it again and I've I've
definitely experienced this first hand
because I do use the 26B for personal
assistant usage. Um so, support tickets
again. Let's move on to something that's
not a support ticket and see what else
is causing it to fall over. So, simple
currency conversion. It's not had a
problem with that again. Um it's fallen
over. Test 14 is a notorious one which
causes models to fall over. I'd be
willing to bet that the base model fell
over on this one. So, let's have a look.
Yes. So, the base model is very close
because the base model found the correct
chain of tools, but it didn't use the
correct tool to convert currency at the
end, which is where a lot of models fall
down on this one. And then, let's
continue down on this fail train. So,
18, how many people are listed in the
engineering department? This should not
be difficult, but it returned two
instead of three. And then, we'll keep
going. We're almost at the end. So, this
is a tricky one. This is where we have
it book a room where there's a conflict.
So, let's see how we did here. Yep, so
this is typically what happens. Ideally,
we want it to just book an alternative
because the goal was to book a room, but
it gets a 75% because it recognized the
conflict, didn't book anything, but it
came back to the user saying, you know,
there's a conflict, what would you like
to do instead? But, if we look at our
fine chain, well, it's created a ticket
about the room change. It's done
employee lookup. Dire- It's like
searching for employees. Again, it's
Yeah, it's crazy. So, the results from
the base model are kind of what I
expected. The very difficult ones, the
ones where models typically don't nail
it. It hasn't, but on most of them it's
done a good job. And then, for the fine
tune, I don't know what's going on, but
yeah, that's a big fail. I've got to
say, it does have me a bit worried about
our coding test later with this model if
I'm being honest. I don't have high
hopes anymore. So, the next test I'm
running is our OpenAI Human Eval. So,
this test suite was actually developed
by OpenAI themselves, and it essentially
puts the model through a set of 164
handwritten Python challenges. And then,
when we test the outputs, we are
actually running the Python to make sure
it does work correctly. So, I'll leave a
link down below to this page if you'd
like to test this yourself. Otherwise,
let's jump into the results. All right,
so we have our reports here for the
OpenAI Human Eval. I did run this last
night because my goodness, it took 7
hours for each one this time around. So,
it's slow going. I really would like
better hardware for this. But anyway,
let's jump into the results. So, as you
can see, the fine-tuned only performed
10% worse. That's not too bad based on
what I've just seen on the previous
agency benchmark. And then, if you saw
my last video, this is a huge
improvement on the Quable fine-tune we
looked at on Qwen 27B. So, this is good.
This kind of does reassure me that I
have got this test set up correctly and
I wasn't going crazy in the last video.
So, anyway, they've answered 100%, so
that's really good to see. 164 out of
164. So, we can get a really good
reading on how they genuinely did
perform across this test. So, 156 passed
on the base 12B and 140 on the
fine-tune. And I got to say, for such a
small model like 12B, this is really
good going from Gemma 4. Like, very
impressive. So, if we jump down, we can
have a look at some of them. I mean,
there's a lot here. So, and I I am
working on a website where I will be
posting these reports, but it's not
quite ready yet cuz I'm spending all my
time doing this instead, but I'll get to
it. So, yeah, we can just have a look at
a couple. Pause the video like to review
it yourself. We'll jump down to the
bottom, see if they get more difficult
along the way. If we look at this one,
159. So, base model has gone a bit crazy
in its thinking here on this one. Yeah,
it's gone into a loop. So, yeah, there's
a good example of Gemma going crazy into
a loop right there. But yeah, overall, I
mean, even the fine-tune didn't do
terribly on this one, but yeah, it's a
clear win from the base model and a very
good score, 95% for such a small model,
too. So, impressive from the Gemma 4
12B. Okay, so it's time to jump into the
coding section and we're going to do our
two tests that I mentioned earlier. And
the first of those is our sand physics.
So, I've got the prompt here. Pause the
video if you'd like to read it. And then
again, it is also linked to the GitHub
down below if you'd like to grab it, try
it yourself, or just read it at your own
leisure. So, we're going to throw this
over here.
We're going to start with the base
model. And the tool we use in here is VS
Code. And then I'm using the client
extension. And that allows me to bring
in my models that are served via
llama.cpp. So, we'll let this code away
and then we'll check back in when
there's something to see. So, I just
want to jump in here cuz I'm seeing some
pretty strange behavior. Um okay, it's
it's done. It says it's done. But I
mean, first thing, this is not what I
wanted to mention, but it didn't create
a to-do list. A lot of models do create
to-do lists. So, it's easier for them to
structurally work through things. By the
way, the model did just open this for
me. But let me just come back here. So,
uh okay, now there is a to-do list.
Okay, interesting. That just wasn't
showing up in Now, maybe that's a client
thing then. But what I noticed in the
thinking just now, I was I was reading
what it was saying. So, it's working
through the code. I've not prompted
anything since the beginning. But if we
look in the thinking here, I did notice
here it's I can't seem to scroll up on
the thinking here. But what it says
here, "The user is reporting an error
because I didn't use a tool in my
previous response. I already provided
the attempt completion tool, but it
seems there was a misunderstanding."
Wait, the instructions says you are
strictly forbidden from starting your
message with great, certainly, okay, or
sure. You should not Okay. So, I'm
assuming actually that this must be some
internal stuff in client. But it just
caught my attention as the text was just
like whizzing down and I just suddenly
saw that the user's reporting an error.
I was like, that's weird. I've not said
anything. But, yeah, whatever. So, as we
saw, it did finish. It finished quite
quick as well. This is very fast, like a
few minutes, and it did give us
something already. So, I mean, we're
seeing
a a checklist visible here, but we'll
ignore that for now. No big deal. It's
easy to fix. So, let's test it. So, sand
selected, let's do that.
Uh it
crashed.
>> [laughter]
>> Okay, it worked. It looked a bit
glitchy, and then, yeah, as soon as the
first particle of sand has hit the base,
it's done. Um
yeah, okay. Obviously, there's going to
be an error. Yeah, so I'm going to pass
this error over to model, and we'll keep
going. Right, I'm just checking in here
because Gemma's been working away for a
long time, like maybe 30 minutes now,
when it took a few minutes to build this
thing. And in my experience, we have
Gemma being Gemma, where it's getting
stuck in a thinking loop, essentially.
So, I'm going to cancel this, and I'm
going to try and prompt it out of its
thinking loop. So, I've prompted you're
stuck in a thinking loop, get some code
out, and we can test it and iterate.
Hopefully, that's going to nudge it out
of the loop. So, hopefully, I can come
back to you shortly with some results.
And then, I do just want to mention we
are on temperature of one, which is
recommended by Google for coding with
this model. And just looking at the
thinking here, the model has stated,
"Wait, I'm going crazy." So, yeah, good
to know we've got a crazy person coding
this project for us. Thanks, Gemma.
Okay, just a couple of minutes later,
and it has delivered, apparently, a fix.
So, getting it out of that loop did
work. So, let's try it. Just reload to
make sure I've definitely got the latest
version. So, we'll place sand.
Awesome. Okay. It's a bit weird when it
falls, but
that's decent. It's not crashing when it
on the ground now. Let's do water.
Oof, it's a bit laggy.
Um
Yeah, kind of.
Is the water evaporating or something?
Okay, let's build a wall.
And then, can we dump water in there,
which normally tests.
I mean, to fill this up is a struggle
because it's like the water is
evaporating.
And let's just see if it overflows out.
Uh
Yeah, but it doesn't flow much. Okay,
it's all right. And then, acid.
Yeah, okay, the acid's working. That's
good.
Okay. That's not too bad.
Um you know, we can probably refine this
further, but
I think that'll do for now. So, if we
just review, well, let me just kill this
first cuz it is uh not the most
performant. So, yeah, let's review. Gave
the initial prompt, and it actually came
back quite fast with the finished
product. And then, we had the issue
where it crashed once the particle hit
the bottom, and told it to fix it. I
gave it the exact error in the console.
And then, it worked for a long time, and
then it got stuck in a loop. So, we
kicked it out of the loop, and then it
didn't take much longer once it got out
of that loop to give us the finished
result. So, not too bad in the end, but
obviously, getting stuck in a loop is a
problem a lot of models run into, and I
do notice this with Gemma a lot more
than Quen, which means you kind of can't
just let it go and do its thing and
leave it to it. But, yeah, not too bad
overall. I mean, it's just a 12B model
as well, so it's definitely not too bad.
So, yeah, let's move on to the
fine-tuned version. See how that does.
All right. So, I'm going to grab the
prompt, open client, close these, and
then we'll give the prompt over to the
fine-tune model, and then let's see how
it does. Yeah, I just wanted to jump in
here, and we've not been going long, and
the fine-tune is, as we saw in the
agency benchmark, it is constantly
trying to call tools. It wants to open a
browser, it wants to take screenshots. I
guess maybe because the model it's
trained on is used to doing that, but I
mean, damn, it's barely started coding.
Although, maybe it thinks that this is
complete and ready to go, but it hasn't
written it to a file yet, so I can't
preview this. But, um,
>> [snorts]
>> I don't know, maybe I should tell it, "I
don't bother with tool calls, just code.
I will
check the result." All right, hopefully
that gets it a bit more on track. Okay,
quick check-in. Told it not to bother
with tools, it seemed like it was going
to be all right, and then it's
immediately started trying to call tools
again. So, if I say proceed anyways,
let's see. I've written the file. Okay,
and now it wants to call the tool again.
Brilliant. Uh, the file is, let's see,
no, the file has not been written into
the project. I don't see that anywhere.
And, yeah, we're just trigger-happy on
the tool calls with this. So, it's like
this is a tool call here. So, the
formatting, from what I can tell, you
know, this is the opening, and this is
what a close looks like. So, like this
code, okay, it's calling like C deck,
but why is this in a tool call blog?
Like, I don't know what it's doing.
Okay, quick check-in. I believe it is in
a loop at this point, looking at the
code, because, I mean, first of all,
it's like, what, this is in a tool call?
Um,
why? And then, like there's code, but
like there's bullet points in what
appears to be an arrow function here.
So, we've got an arrow function, so when
the mouse is up, and then if his drawing
is false, then we do this, and then we
start into the function, and then
there's bullet points in a function.
Which is really strange. And then, yeah,
it's just Is it doing anything different
here? So, it's always the same. So,
yeah, I'm not I'm not convinced Yeah,
it's So, let's go with what we did with
the base one. Looks like you're stuck in
a loop. Give me some code to work with,
and I can test and let you know how it
is. You don't need to cool tools. I will
review it. Let's see if that helps like
it did with our base model. Okay, so
what I'm noticing here is it looks like
the model is actually trying to tell me
it's done, but it's not able to do it.
So, I feel like this is an issue with
the harness probably rather than the
model. So, what I'm going to do is got
all the code here. So, I'm going to copy
this code. I'm going to manually create
uh index.html, and now I'm going to
paste the code in and save it. And it
has a bunch of errors. Okay, great. But,
what I'm thinking is now Okay, hang on.
Yeah, this code is repeated. So,
um do we have it? Let me search for
this, and see if it's twice. No. Okay,
so what's going on here? We've got the
scripts block with seemingly the logic
in then the body, and then a script
block below. So, yeah, we'll technically
would have the scripts down at the
bottom rather than in the head. So, I'm
I'm just going to remove this script
from the head cuz that is a very strange
place to put it. Wait, hang on a minute.
So, there's also
Wait, what is going on here?
Wait, how many body tags do we have?
Two.
Okay. So, this is going to be a bit of a
a blunt workaround. So, we're going to
keep this body tag, and then I'm going
to get rid of everything up to here and
then
yeah, well the errors are gone now. So
maybe we can try running this. Right, so
here we are. Okay, it's running. It
seems to be working. So yeah, a bit of
manual tweaking there, but let's see if
we can try this. So we'll go with sand.
Um
Okay.
So if I click up here, that's weird.
It's like this is the view of what I'm
doing here.
And then but then it's just like
Okay, there is interaction. There's like
visible interaction. I am clicking.
Um oh wait, it's still doing sand. I
can't switch.
Clear works.
Um
Yeah, I can drag the brush to here and
then it immediately
goes back up when I hover over it.
Can we I can't switch. Okay, so what I'm
going to do then now we've got the code,
I think I'll start a new context with
the model and we'll see if it can fix
it.
Okay, so we're still having issues with
tool calls and I think this does need to
be resolved here. So I've enabled or
disabled, I'm not entirely sure by the
AI. I think this is enabled. So
basically native tool calling was like
this which I assumed meant on, but now
I'm confused if this means it's on. So
I'm going to come back to our original
prompts where I was struggling and try
and resume this now and see if the tool
calls work because I know with Open Web
UI where I use Gemma 26B as an
assistant, I do have native tool calling
turned on. So I'm confused what's the
deal in client with these settings. No,
it doesn't seem to have helped actually.
Let me go back here.
Um if we just try copy this, get rid
[snorts] of this, let's try again with
my
That's not the prompt I wanted. This was
the prompt I wanted. So,
try again
with a fresh context now that native
tool calling feature has been changed,
and then let's see how we go. Otherwise,
if this is going to be a problem, might
have to try a different harness. Yeah,
it's going to be a problem. The only
other harness I have available right now
is open code then. So, I might have to
go back into open code, and we'll try
this prompt from the beginning.
Okay, so here in open code, I'm going to
give the prompt to the model, and then
we're going to see if it can manage in
open code with these tool calls that it
wants to do. I mean, ideally, I wouldn't
want it doing any tool calls. It doesn't
need to. So, yeah, we'll see how this
gets on in open code now, and then I'll
come back when hopefully we've got
something to see where the model was
able to modify and interact with the
file. Okay, so it's done with the code
in open code. It didn't take long, but
the file has not been written. So, I'll
try and ask it,
"Can you save the file to the project
directory?" But, I suspect, yeah, this
is going to be the same issue with tool
calls not working where it can't even
write a file to the system. Okay, so
just checking in. It's tried to write
the file, and it's used invalid
arguments. So, missing key file path.
So, this isn't going to work either.
We're not going to be able to use open
code. So, I don't know. Let me come back
to you in a bit. Okay, I'm back. And as
you can see, we're in Claude code now.
So, it was fine-tuned on Claude, right?
So, in theory, I feel like these tool
calls should be compatible with Claude
code. So,
going to paste the prompt in again, and
we're going to see how it goes. And if
it doesn't work this time, I think we're
done with the code and test
unfortunately. So, fingers crossed this
works. Okay, so it's tried to write a
file and it's failed. It's asking to a
bash command to verify the file was
created. So, we're going to say yes.
It's obviously going to find out that it
wasn't written. So, I'm thinking this is
not going to work either. So, I'm
looking at the model page here and it
does say hitting a problem and where you
can have the leaked tool calls coming
out and you need to use Gemma 4's native
tool format and use ginger in llama.cpp.
So, I am using ginger in llama.cpp and
Gemma's tool format is being passed cuz
our base model's working. And as we saw
in Klein, we did toggle native tool
calling on and off and that didn't seem
to resolve it either. So, I've tried
three different editors at this point.
None of them have worked. We've tried
toggling native calling on and off.
That's not worked. Just going to check
the pinned discussion and let's have a
look in there. So, people have reported
garbled output, leaking upstream Gemma 4
plus client bug. It's not the quan, blah
blah. Okay, where's the solution?
Reliable fix. So, llama.cpp.
Yeah, use ginger. I am. Use a recent
build. Yeah, I'm pretty up-to-date with
my llama.cpp. So, yeah, I don't know
about this one, guys. I feel like we're
not going to be able to proceed with the
code and test on this video. So, maybe
we can revisit this one, but I'm
probably going to call it there, which
is a shame, but we have our results from
our other benchmarks. So, that might
give us a bit of an idea. So, let's
review. So, yeah, I'm sorry about the
result for this one, guys, for coding.
It's a bit of a disappointment and I did
really want to get it working. I've
tried many things, including what was
recommended, but I'm obviously doing
something wrong still. So, maybe one of
you's got this working and you can let
me know how you got it working. But, if
we just look at how it did. So, in the
performance, it was the same. Not much
to talk about there, really. Was
expected. Then, in our memory test, it
did do better, but within margin of
error, almost, I would say. So, I
wouldn't read into the memory too much
of it. In the agency, it failed pretty
hard because tool calling, I guess. But,
in the agency benchmark, we didn't have
an issue with tools being passed. It was
using tool calls in the benchmark
because it passed a bunch of tests. So,
that was working fine. And then also,
the problem with the agency benchmark
was simply it was just calling all
manner of tools when it had no business
doing it. So, there is some issue there,
I believe. And then when we look at the
human eval test from OpenAI, it did
perform 10% worse on those Python
challenges. So, it's certainly not as
good, in my opinion. So, my conclusion
from this is honestly, fine-tunes, do
they work? Are they any good? Maybe
we'll find one that's actually good at
some point. But, I'm going to keep
trying. I'm going to keep seeing what's
coming out from people. And yeah, I
think we'll leave it at there, guys. So,
what did you think about this one?
Again, my apologies that we couldn't run
through the coding tests on this one. I
will revisit it if I can get things
working. But, yeah, we're going to leave
it there for now. So, thanks for
watching. I appreciate it. If you're
still here, thumbs up really helps.
Subscribe if you want to see more
content like this, and I'll see you in
the next one.
Bye.